static ip vs dynamic ip

When a device is assigned a static IP address, the address does not change.
 Most devices use dynamic IP addresses, which are assigned by the network when
  they connect and change over time.

Static IP addresses are assigned by Internet Service Providers (ISPs). Your ISP
 may or may not allocate you a static IP address depending on the nature of your 
 service agreement.

 Dynamic addresses are assigned, as needed, by Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) servers.
 Deciding whether dynamic or static IP addresses are better for you also depends on the nature of 
 the connection. A static IP address is more likely to be relevant for a business, while a dynamic
  IP address is appropriate for a home network


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Public vs Private IP

Both are the two types of IPV4.

Public IP:
        Public IP addresses can be routed on the Internet, unlike private addresses.
The presence of a public IP address on your router or computer will allow you to organize
 your own server (VPN, FTP, WEB, etc.), remote access to your computer, video surveillance 
 cameras, and get access to them from anywhere on the global network.All public IP addresses 
 on the Internet are unique to their host or server and cannot duplicate.
 For home users, an ISP can provide one or more public IP addresses (as a rule, it is a paid service).


 Private IP:
           Private (internal) addresses are not routed on the Internet, and no traffic 
           can be sent to them from the Internet; they are only supposed to work within
            the local network. These addresses are intended for use in closed local area networks, 
            and no one globally controls the allocation of such addresses.
 Direct access to the Internet from a private IP address is not possible. In this case, the
  connection to the Internet must go through NAT (Network Address Translation 
replaces the private IP address with a public one). Private IP addresses within the same 
local network must be unique and cannot duplicate.

